Hello everyone in this lesson you will actually begin building your website.
So without further ado let's get started.
So here we see my wordpress Web site that I created in the last lesson.
If you followed along you also now have your own WordPress Web site.
And what we're looking at right now is the public facing portion of the site.
Right.
So anyone in the world can see this but if we want to begin building and customizing our Web site we
want to switch over to the back and administrative dashboard screens.
Now you still might be logged in as the admin.
If that's the case obviously you don't need to log in again.
So up in the address bar at the end of your you Arel add on a slash and then W.P. dash add in.
Now if you're still logged in that will take you to the admin screens.
And if you're not logged in wordpress is smart enough to redirect you to the log in page.
Now once you've logged in and made it to the admin screen the first thing I want to bring to your attention
is this top bar that runs along the very top of the page towards the left hand side of this bar we see
a home icon and then the name of your website.
In my case it's my blog but your site might be named something different.
Anyways if you click that link it will let you switch back and forth between the front and public facing
portion of your website.
And if I click on it again it takes me back to the back and administrative part of the website.
OK so that's a very useful link to be aware of.
Now with that out of the way let's begin.
Actually building our website.
Let's start by creating a new blog post.
So in this lefthand menu area let's click on posts.
All right.
This screen will show us a list of all the posts that currently exist on our website because my web
site is brand new.
You can see that it says no posts found.
Right.
We haven't created any posts yet.
Depending on the web hosting company that you're using They might have created a few sample or dummy
posts for you.
So if your screen doesn't look exactly like mine here that's OK.
But we are interested in creating a new post so up at the top here we see this add new button you can
click that or in the sidebar You can click add new.
Which is nested under the posts part of the menu.
So I will click Add new and this first time that we visit this edit screen WordPress will show us this
pop up help message.
We can just click the X in the top right corner of this message to close it OK now for our first bit
of business let's add a title for this post.
Let's call it my example blog post.
OK and then let's switch down to this field and begin writing the content for the post.
Hello everyone.
This is my first blog post.
It is just a quick example.
You get the idea.
You can type whatever you want here and then when you're happy with what you have over on the right
hand side of the screen we see this blue publish button.
So let's click that.
And in this newest version of Wordpress it's a bit annoying but we need to click publish a second time
if you're like me and you don't like having to click the button twice.
You can look down towards the bottom right hand corner of the screen and we can uncheck this box that
reads.
Always show pre published checks.
So I'm going to uncheck that so in future I don't have to click publish twice.
So let's click the publish button one more time here.
OK now we see the success message right here that says Post published and why don't we go test things
out.
Why don't we view the public front facing portion of our website and look for that new blog post.
So remember we can click this link in our top bar that will take us to the public facing portion of
the Web site.
And if we scroll down here we see the brand new blog post that we just wrote.
Now practice makes perfect.
So why don't we practice creating another new blog post.
So I will use this link to jump back to my admin area and then under posts in the sidebar.
I will click add new Let's enter a title for this new post.
How about another nude test post.
All right.
And then for the actual content or the body of the post.
Hello world.
This is a test post.
You could write as much as you want to within this area and maybe I want the phrase as much as you want
to to be bold so I could just highlight that and then click this B for bold.
All right this looks good.
So over on the right hand side I will click the blue publish button all right and then I can use this
link up in the header again to switch back to my public facing web site and there it is.
Notice how our newest post comes first.
Right so this is the post we created a few minutes ago and this is the one we just now created.
So on the front end of your website that the public sees WordPress will always sort your posts by the
date that they were created.
And the most recently created posts are up at the top.
All right and if we click on the title for one of these posts so if I click here or here for example
I will click on another new test post.
Notice that that takes us to a new U R L right that takes us to a new screen or a new page and this
new you are Elvis new screen is dedicated to just that one single blog post.
So if you wanted to share one of your posts with friends or family or you wanted to post a link on Facebook
or Twitter and you wanted to link to a particular post and not just your website in general you could
share this particular link.
Write in to get back to our home page.
We can just click the name of our website that lives in the header.
So if I click on that we are right back to the home page.
OK so feel free to create as many posts as you like as often as you like.
If you want to delete or make changes to one of your existing posts just visit your dashboard in the
left hand menu click on posts.
Here we see all of our existing posts.
If you hover over one you'll see an option to click trash which will delete the post and if you want
to edit or make changes to an existing post just click on its title that will take you back to the edit
screen for that post.
You're free to make changes here and then just save your changes by clicking the blue update button.
Now at this point I want to take a moment to address a common concern you might have at this point you
might be thinking to yourself is this.
It is WordPress just for creating blogs.
Is this the only type of Web site we can create.
Right so for example maybe you do want a blog on your Web site but you don't want the home page of your
website to be the blog.
Maybe you want a more traditional static welcoming home page and you want a blog or a news area tucked
away within its own neat page somewhere.
Well the good news is that WordPress can do that.
Wordpress is not limited to only creating blogs.
WordPress can be used to create just about any Web site we can imagine.
OK so at this point we are at least a little bit familiar with what a post is.
But if we want to unlock the full potential of Wordpress our next step is to learn about pages and that
is exactly what we are going to learn about in our next lesson.
More importantly will learn what the differences between a post and a page and we will also learn how
to create a navigation menu that lives at the top of our website that links to our different pages.
Right.
So maybe we want to have an About page and a contact page or a photo gallery page.
You get the idea.
Right so having said that let's keep things rolling and I will see you in the next lesson.